Website Link:
https://jeremym3817.github.io/DS4200/


Reference Links

Super store Analysis 🏪| Data Visual. | Seaborn🔴 
https://www.kaggle.com/code/ashwinshetgaonkar/super-store-analysis-data-visual-seaborn

This visualization is derived from the same data displays the distribution of shipping modes. We clearly see that standard class is the most prominent shipping mode. 
This reference page breaks down every step from importing libraries to complex analysis like profit distribution with violin plots.  

Data Analysis for Marketing Strategy 
https://www.kaggle.com/code/sasakitetsuya/data-analysis-for-marketing-strategy

This visualization from the Data Analysis for Marketing Strategy reference paper ranks the top 20 cities by profit. 
We see that New York, California, and Seattle dominate sales, leading every other city by a significant margin. 
This reference paper contains less complex but more encompassing visualizations than the other reference paper.   


Design of visualizations

Plotly Map: We used the plotly map of the states to give a geographic perspective for the viewer to see the profit breakdown based 
on location. This allows the viewer to make connections from what they know about a particular area in terms of wealth, population, 
etc along with our other data about the superstore. In terms of marks, this graph uses area (namely the area of the state) to 
display the size of the state in comparison to its profit margins. For channels, the use of color tells a viewer what each state is 
making profit wise, along with vertical and horizontal position to explain where a state is. This coincides with a legend that gives 
the viewer an image of the big picture look of how our profits are distributed.  


Inactive barplot: 

Originally using a sanskey, we made the switch to an interactive bar plot to better show how our profit was distributed by segment 
of customers. The plot allows viewers to isolate segments of buyers and see how they scale by state and profit compared to other 
segments. This uses area/lines marks to display the quantitative values of the plot (profit), along with a horizontal and vertical 
position to give the positions of the bars (state and profit respectively) and the color to distinguish by segment of buyers. This 
will give the user more viewing options them the sanskey and allow them to come to simple conclusions about the demographics of the 
superstore.  


Treemap 

We generated a treemap using plotly express to represent the categories and subcategories to best visually illustrate the relative 
proportions of each. Marks used in this plot are the rectangles for each of the nodes in the tree map. Channels used in the treemap 
include position (locations of each rectangle in the hierarchy), size (of rectangle), color (of each rectangle based on category), 
and shape (rectangle). 


Lineplot 

We generated a line plot using python’s Altair library to depict sales quantities over a period of three years. Marks used in the 
plot are the lines for each of the categories. Channels are position (x and y coordinates of each data point), color (of each line), 
and length (of each line).  


D3 Grouped Barplot 

This grouped bar chart, built with D3.js, displays shipping method preferences across Furniture, Office Supplies, and Technology. 
Each rectangle mark represents total sales volume for a specific shipping method within a category. X-axis position separates 
product categories and groups the four shipping methods; y-axis position shows sales volume. Color distinguishes shipping 
methods: Standard Class (yellow), Second Class (orange), First Class (dark orange), and Same Day (red). Bar height encodes sales 
magnitude. Standard Class leads in all categories, while Same Day has the lowest volume. The plot uses position, color, and length 
channels to compare shipping behavior by product type. 
